.TH FCONF2* 1 "fconf2*" "4 Oct 2002" "Husky - Portable Fidonet Software"
.SH NAME
fconf2* \- Converts fidoconfig to another format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fconf2golded, fconf2msged, fconf2aquaed, fconf2fidogate,
.B fconf2squish
/path/to/new/config [/path/to/defaultconfig]
.sp 1
.B fconf2msged
/path/to/new/config
.sp 1
.B fconf2binkd
[options] -c /path/to/fidoconfig /path/to/new/config
.sp 1
.B fconf2tornado
[options] /path/to/tornado.ctl
.sp 1
.B fconf2areasbbs
[/path/to/fidoconfig] /path/to/areas.bbs
.sp 1
.B fconf2dir
/path/to/fidoconfig /path/to/dir.frq [/path/to/blstbbs.dir]
.sp 1
.B fconf2dir
/path/to/dir.frq
.sp 1
.B fconf2na.pl
/path/to/echoarea_file /path/to/echolist_file

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B fconf2*
Converts fidoconfig to config for another Program:
.sp 1
.B fconf2golded
produces output for GoldED.
.br
.B fconf2msged
produces output for MsgED.
.br
.B fconf2aquaed
produces output for AquaED.
.br
.B fconf2fidogate
produces output for Fidogate.
.br
.B fconf2binkd
generate passwords file or simple config file (may include it into real
config) for BinkD.
.br
.B fconf2squish
produces output for Squish.
.br
.B fconf2tornado
produces output for Tornado BBS.
.br
.B fconf2areasbbs
produces areas.bbs file. This is perl script.
.br
.B fconf2dir
produces fileecho directory listings: dir.frq (plain directory list)
& BLstBBS directories file. This is perl script.
.br
.B fconf2na
parse HPT echoareas file and produce export areatags and descriptions
to FIDONET.NA-compatible file. This is perl script.
.sp 2
If fidoconfig don't specified in command line, use \fBFIDOCONFIG\fR
enviroment variable (if defined) or see default path (\fI/etc/fido/config\fR for UNIXes).

.SH OPTIONS
.B [/path/to/new/config]
Name of output file.
.TP
.B [/path/to/defaultconfig]
If you specify a defaultconfig there will be an include for it in the new
config. Useful for some Defaults.
.TP
.B [/path/to/fidoconfig]
Fidoconfig file name. (Overwrite \fBFIDOCONFIG\fR enviroment variable value.)
.TP
.B [/path/to/ares.bbs]
Path & name to generated \fBAREAS.BBS\fR file.
.TP
.B [/path/to/dir.bbs]
Path & name to generated \fBDIR.BBS\fR file.
.TP
.B [/path/to/blstbbs.dir]
Path & name to generated \fBBLSTBBS.DIR\fR file.
.TP
.B [/path/to/tornado.ctl]
Path & name to generated \fBTORNADO.CTL\fR file.
.TP
.B [/path/to/echoarea_file]
Path & name for \fBconfig.areas\fR file.
.TP
.B [/path/to/echolist_file]
Path & name to generated \fBECHOLIST.NA\fR file.

.SH FILES
.br
.nf
.\" set tabstop to longest possible filename, plus a wee bit
.ta \w'/etc/fido/config   'u
\fI/etc/fido/config\fR  Default Fidoconfig.

.SH BUGS
The '\fIinclude\fR' config directive not supported
in \fBfconf2dir\fR and \fBfconf2areasbbs\fR.

.SH NOTES
All Husky-Software is written by various developers. For detailed information
about the Husky-Team take a look at
http://husky.sourceforge.net/team.html.
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Joerg Jaspert (JJ) <joerg@goliathbbs.dnsalias.net>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
.br
Updated by Stas Degteff 2:5080/102@FIDOnet and Pavel Andreew 2:5080/59@FIDOnet
