.TH TPARSER 1 "tparser" "04 April 2001" "Husky - Portable Fidonet Software"
.SH NAME
tparser \- Parses Fidoconfig
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tparser
[-Dvar=value] [-E] [-P] [/path/to/fido/config]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B tparser
Checks your Fidoconfig for errors and gives you some hints to solve the
problems. If
.B tparser
finds an error \fINO\fR Husky program will work !
.br
.sp 2
This manual page was written for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution
because the original program does not have a manual page.

.SH OPTIONS
.B [/path/to/fido/config]
Optional path to Fidoconfig. If left blank the builtin default will be used.
.PP
.B -h
.br
.B --help
Print command line parameters
.PP
.B -Dvar=value
Set the config variable \fBvar\fR to \fBvalue\fR
.PP
.B -E
Dumps config into stdout (all variables expanded).
.PP
.B -P
Try to create all nonexistent directories.

.SH ENVIROMENT

.I FIDOCONFIG
Points to config file

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.B 0
if there is valid config.
.PP
.B 1
if there is an error found in config.

.SH FILES
.br
.nf
.\" set tabstop to longest possible filename, plus a wee bit
.ta \w'/etc/fido/config   'u
\fI/etc/fido/config\fR  Default Fidoconfig (hardcoded on compile time).

.SH NOTES
All Husky-Software is written by various developers. For detailed information
about the Husky-Team take a look at
http://husky.sourceforge.net/team.html.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was initially written by Joerg Jaspert (JJ) <joerg@goliathbbs.dnsalias.net>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
